# Railway-Reservation-System

An organized and systematic office solution is essential for Railway reservations. This project is based on the database of the Railway Reservation System and guarantees a simple, error-free, efficient, hassle-free, secure, and fast reservation of seats.
The project provides a user-friendly interface to book tickets for 5 prominent cities in the country where users can register themselves, log into their accounts, and register their passengers. The seats can reserve only for the registered passengers. Users can retrieve the passenger information and the total amount generated out of bookings, view, cancel, and also update the bookings (change the train). The tickets reserved by the user can be printed only by the user.
This system also provides advantages to the passengers. Based on the details filled in during the registration process of the passengers, the system automatically allocates any 1 of the 3 coaches (General coach, Physical Disability Coach, and Senior Citizen Coach)and the passengers get to benefit from the Fare reductions. They can also view the train details and check the status of their ticket just by entering the pass name (which can be the name of the passenger’s choice) without having to remember a long PNR number and avoid user intervention.
This project, therefore, automates the process, reduces manual errors, makes the reservation process more simple, easy, error-free, hassle-free, efficient, time-saving, and fast, and most importantly reduces the huge amount of paperwork.
